
1. **Which one of these elements is mandatory in a valid HTML document?**

 ```
 <title> (A)
 ```

2. **Which one of these is the most correct way to define text that represents a caption for an input field in HTML?** 

```
<label>Username: <input name="username" type="text"></label> (B)
```

3. **Which one of these sentences about the id attribute in an HTML element is correct?**

The id must be unique and each element can only have one id. (A)

4. **Which one of these selectors selects just the first list element?**
```
<ul>
<li>A</li>
<li>B</li>
<li>C</li>
<li>D</li>
</ul>
```

ul > :first-child (C)

5. **What would be the expected result if the following CSS was added to the page?**
```
<section>
<div id="a">A</div>
<div id="b">B</div>
<div id="c">C</div>
</section>
```

A

B

C

```
#b { float: right }
```

A 

C  B    

(D)

6. **Which one of the following CSS rules would make the text "DEF" twice as big as the text "ABC"?**
```
<body>
ABC
<div>
<div>
DEF
</div>
</div>
</body>
```

div{font-size: 2rem} (B)


7. **Consider that you have access to a PHP function that calculates a student's grade given his student
number:**
```
function calculateGrade($number) {
... // some code
}
```
**This function returns a number between 0 and 20 if the student exists, and NULL if he doesn't..
Which one of these is the correct way to test if the student exists?**

```
function existsStudent($number) {
return calculateGrade($number) !== NULL;
}
```
(C)


8. **What happens when the following command is executed in the middle of a PHP script?**
```
header('Location: otherURL.php');
```
(C), because the it waits for the browser to load the page before switching scripts


9. **What's the correct way to declare a variable in JavaScript?**

Always using the let keyword. (B)

10. **In which kind of HTTP messages can we find HTTP headers?**

In HTTP requests and responses. (A)


11. **One of the ways to prevent CSRF attacks is to use CSRF tokens. How does this mechanism work?**

The CSRF token is generated and stored on the server, sent to the browser inside the
HTML code and resent to the server where it is checked. (B), server generates the id and browser only stores id, the rest of session is stored in the server

12. **The use of diferent salts for each password, does not prevent:**

Brute force attacks against weak passwords. (C)


#### Informação

```
<section id="foo">
<ul class="bar">
<li class="first">A</li>
<li class="second">B</li>
<li>C</li>
<li>D</li>
</ul>
</section>


.bar li { color: green } /* R1 */
section :first-of-type .second { color: yellow } /* R2 */
section#foo {color: blue } /* R3 */
section[id=foo] > * {color: purple } /* R4 */
.bar li.first:first-child + li { color: inherit } /* R5 */
#foo > li.first:first-child ~ li { color: magenta } /* R6 */

```


13. **What is the specificity of rule R1?**

0 0 1 1

14. **What is the specificity of rule R2?**

0 0 2 1 

15. **What is the specificity of rule R3?**

0 1 0 1

16. **What is the specificity of rule R4?**
0 0 1 1


17. **What is the specificity of rule R5?**

0 0 3 2

18. **What is the specificity of rule R6?**

0 1 2 20 0 1 1

19.**Knowing that the default value for the color attribute of the body element is black, and that all
other elements have color inherit by default, what color will the second element in the list (B) have
after all rules are applied.**

purple (C)


#### Informação

```
Consider the following string:
A groundhog would hog all the ground he could hog, if a groundhog could hog ground
For each one of the following regular expressions, copy the string and add square brackets around
the first match. Don't change the string in any other way.
```

20. **/g.\*g/**

A [groundhog would hog all the ground he could hog, if a groundhog could hog g]round

21. **/ground.+?hog/**

A [groundhog would hog] all the ground he could hog, if a groundhog could hog ground  


22. **/(.+)\1/**

A groundhog would hog a[ll] the ground he could hog, if a groundhog could hog ground


23. **/ground(?!hog)/**

A groundhog would hog all the [ground] he could hog, if a groundhog could hog ground


24. **/\w+$/**

A groundhog would hog all the ground he could hog, if a groundhog could hog [ground]


25. **/(\w{3}).*?\1/**

A [groundhog would hog all the gro]und he could hog, if a groundhog could hog ground


#### Informação

**Consider the following HTML code representing a tic-tac-toe game played between a human (browser) and a computer (server):**
```
<section id="tic-tac-toe" data-id="1234">
<div class="square"></div>
<div class="square"></div>
<div class="square"></div>
<div class="square">X</div>
<div class="square">X</div>
<div class="square">O</div> 
<div class="square"></div>
<div class="square"></div>
<div class="square">O</div>
<p id="state">playing</p>
</section>

```

**The human player uses the 'X' mark to play and the computer uses the 'O' mark. The human player
is always the first to play.**

**Also, consider that the HTML document can contain other section, div, and p elements.You do not need to consider any error conditions.**



26. **Write the code needed for a PHP page (play.php) that receives the following POST parameters:
id: The game id.
position: An optional number, between 1 and 9, representing the move played by the human.
If the position parameter has not been received, the page should only return the current state (as
returned by the state function defined below) of the game having the received id.**

**If the position parameter has been received, the page should execute the human move, execute
the computer move and then return the current game state.
Consider that you have access to the following PHP functions in a file named game.php:**

**state($id) - returns the game state for a given id. Example: array('state' => 'playing', 'squares' =>
array ('', '', '', 'X', 'X', 'O', '', '', 'O'))
play($id, $position) - executes the human play received as a parameter. If the game hasn't
ended yet, also executes a computer move.
The game state should be returned using JSON.**

```
<php
$id = $_POST('id')

if(isset($_POST('position'))){
    play($id, $_POST('position'))
}

echo json_encode(state($id))

?>
```


27. **Write the JavaScript code needed so that when the page is loaded:
The PHP script defined in the previous question is called, using Ajax, with the id parameter
equal to the current game id (data-id attribute of the section with id 'tic-tac-toe').
The HTML code is changed so that it reflects the state returned by that script (pieces and state).
You can consider that the script has been loaded using the defer attribute.
You can also consider that you have access to the following function:**
```
function encodeForAjax(data) {
    return Object.keys(data).map(function(k){
        return encodeURIComponent(k) + '=' + encodeURIComponent(data[k])
    }).join('&')
}
```
```
const game = document.getElementById('tic-tac-toe')
let cstate = game.querySelectorAll('.square')

function sendAjaxRequest(id, position) {
    let request = new XMLHttpRequest()
    request.addEventListener("load", updateGame)
    request.open("post", "play.php", true)
    request.setRequestHeader('Content-Type', 'application/x-www-form-urlencoded')

    let data = {id: id}
    if (position) data.position = position

    request.send(encodeForAjax(data))
}

function updateGame() {
    const state = JSON.parse(this.responseText)
    for (let i = 0; i < state.length; ++i )
        currentState[i].innerText = state[i].innerText;
}

sendAjaxRequest(game.dataset.id)
```


28. **Write the JavaScript code needed so that when the human player clicks an empty square:
The PHP script is called, using Ajax, with the id parameter equal to the current game id (data-id
attribute of the section with id 'tic-tac-toe') and the parameter position equal to the clicked
square number (from 1 to 9).
The HTML code is changed so that it reflects the state returned by that script (pieces and state).
You can, and should, use any functions defined in the previous question.**

```
const game = document.getElementById('tic-tac-toe')
let cstate = game.querySelectorAll('.square')


cstate.forEach(square =>{
      square.addEventListencer('click', move )
      )}

function move(event){
    if(event.target.innerText !== "") return
    pos = cstate.indexOf(event.target) + 1
    sendAjaxRequest(game.dataset.id, position)
}

``` 

#### Informação

```
<recipes>
<recipe difficulty="medium">
<name>Apple Pie</name>
<description>A delicious type of pie</description>
<ingredients>
<ingredient>Apple</ingredient>
<ingredient>Butter</ingredient>
<ingredient>Sugar</ingredient>
<ingredient>Flour</ingredient>
</ingredients>
</recipe>
<recipe difficulty="low">
<name>Mixed Toast</name>
<ingredients>
<ingredient>Bread</ingredient>
<ingredient>Ham</ingredient>
<ingredient>Cheese</ingredient>
</ingredients>
</recipe>
</recipes>
```
**Also consider that the context node is the document root. Write the XPath expressions that select the following elements:**


29. **The name (just the text) of all ingredients in the document.**

//recipes/recipe/ingredients/ingredient/text() or //ingredient/text()

30. **The number of ingredients in the Mixed Toast recipe.**

count(//recipe[name="Mixed Toast"]//ingredient)

31. **The number of medium difficulty recipes.**

count(//recipe[@difficulty="medium"])
 
32. **The name (just the text) of all recipes containing Apple as an ingredient.**

//recipe[ingredients/ingredient="Apple"]/name/text()
